Area Calculator
Python is especially useful for doing math and can be used to automate many calculations. In this project, we’ll create a calculator that can compute the area of the following shapes:

Circle
Triangle
The program should do the following:

Prompt the user to select a shape.
Calculate the area of that shape.
Print the area of that shape to the user.
Let’s begin!

If you get stuck during this project or would like to see an experienced developer work through it, click “Get Unstuck“ to see a project walkthrough video.

Tasks
17/17 Complete
Mark the tasks as complete by checking them off
1.
Begin by writing a multi-line comment that describes what this program does, starting on line 1.


Stuck? Get a hint
2.
Let’s inform the user that the program is running.

Print a message to let the user know the calculator is starting up.


Stuck? Get a hint
3.
Next, ask the user what shape to calculate the area of using raw_input(), which works like:

name = raw_input("What's your name? ")
Prompt the user for input with the following message: "Enter C for Circle or T for Triangle: ".

Store their input into a variable called option.


Stuck? Get a hint
4.
Great! Now it’s time to calculate the area of the shape that the user specifies.

Write an if statement that will check if the option the user entered is 'C' for circle.


Stuck? Get a hint
5.
For the next few steps, we will be writing code inside the if statement.

Prompt the user to input the radius.

Store their input into a variable called radius.


Stuck? Get a hint
6.
Using raw_input() alone will store the user’s input as a string. Since we want to do some calculations with the user’s input, we need numbers, not strings.

Python has a built-in method called float() that converts a string to a floating point number.

Put the raw_input("Enter radius: ") part of your code inside float() parenthesises like this:

radius = float(raw_input("Enter radius: "))

Stuck? Get a hint
7.
Calculate the area of a circle now that you have the radius.

area = π r²

Use 3.14159 for the value of pi.
Use exponentiation ** to square.
Store the result in a variable called area.


Stuck? Get a hint
8.
Finally, on the next line, print the area using string formatting.


Stuck? Get a hint
9.
You’ve completed the part of the program that calculates the area of a circle – it’s a good time to test the code!

First, click Save. Then, in the terminal, type the following command and press enter:

python AreaCalculator.py

Stuck? Get a hint
10.
Great! It’s time to move on to the next shape: the triangle.

Add a corresponding elif statement to your if statement.

The elif statement should check if the option the user entered is 'T' for triangle.


Stuck? Get a hint
11.
For the next few steps, you will be staying inside the elif statement.

To calculate the area of a triangle, first ask the user to enter the base of the triangle.

Store the user’s input in a variable called base.

Convert the user’s input from a string to a number by using float().


Stuck? Get a hint
12.
The height of the triangle is also needed to calculate its area.

Ask the user to enter the height of the triangle and store the input in a variable called height.

Convert the user’s input from a string to a number by using float().


Stuck? Get a hint
13.
Next, calculate the area and store it in a variable called area.

area = ½ b h


Stuck? Get a hint
14.
Finally, print the area using string formatting.


Stuck? Get a hint
15.
Fantastic! The user can now specify C for circle or T for triangle.

But what if the user enters something else?

Add an else block to handle this possible case.

Inside the else block, print a message to inform the user that they entered an invalid shape.


Stuck? Get a hint
16.
Last line of the program!

Outside of the if statement, inform the user that the program is exiting.


Stuck? Get a hint
17.
Now we’re ready to try the program out!

First, click Save. Then, in the terminal, type the following command and press enter:

python AreaCalculator.py
Congratulations!
